[THEME MUSIC]
>>ROBERT J. GILBERT: Welcome.
I'm your host Dr.
Robert J. Gilbert.
In this episode, we will
explore a key sacred geometry
pattern which is essential
for recharging energy
in the human body.
This pattern not only exists
throughout the human body,
it is also a key energy
source from the subatomic
all the way up to the
Galactic level and even
connects to higher dimensions.
Spiritually, this
is the same pattern
which creates the form of the
chalice of the Holy Grail.
You will learn, in this
episode, three essential methods
to use the sacred geometry
pattern to clear and energize
your entire body
and energy field.
Every form in sacred
geometry is like a letter
of a divine alphabet.
These letters are
formed, then combined
into words which are complex
combinations of sacred geometry
patterns which create
all levels of reality.
Sacred geometry is
sometimes described
as the divine
language of creation
or as an angelic language
because higher spiritual beings
can communicate and create
through the language
of sacred geometry.
This divine language of
sacred geometry forms
was also known as
the secret script
in some spiritual traditions.
The spiritual initiation
process of humans learning
to read this divine
language has been
expressed in many
different ways,
as learning to read
in the Book of Nature.
We saw in our last episode
that sacred geometry patterns
are at their highest level,
thought forms and the mind
of God which provides the energy
blueprints for the creation
of all physical existence.
These patterns hold the
secret of materialization.
How to control the manifestation
of energy and spirit
into solid physical matter.
In our previous episode, we
introduced the first pattern
or what we could
call the first letter
in the language of
sacred geometry, which
was the point in the
center of the circle.
The point in the center is
the zero dimensional gateway
to the divine plane.
The point in the
center is called
the singularity in physics.
It is the unified
field where everything
is united into the one.
The point then expands outwards
to create a circle or a sphere
in three dimensions.
This sphere is the
container for materializing
the physical world.
In our previous
episode, we experienced
how the point in the center
of the circle or sphere image
is the secret for
activating any energy
center in the human body.
As you learn, then, how to
use this energy pattern to
activate the cave of
Brahma in the center
of your head, which then creates
the golden sphere of activated
consciousness around
your entire head.
We also saw from modern
Egyptian biogeometry,
the geometric shapes
which resonate
with specific levels
of manifestation, which
are the planes of creation.
The zero dimensional
point, the center point
is the literal gateway
for the divine plane.
The circle or the
sphere is the container
of the physical plane.
The circle and the
sphere are considered
to be the perfect forms
in the divine alphabet
of sacred geometry because
they are perfectly balanced.
Every point on the periphery
of the circle or sphere,
the boundary of creation
is the exact same distance
from the divine
plane at the center.
Let's read in the
Book of Nature and see
how the sphere is a
key to manifesting
energy and consciousness
from higher worlds
into physical matter.
Ancient diagrams of spiritual
creation of the world
are filled with images
of circles and spheres
which hold creation.
In ancient Egypt,
the scarab beetle
was considered sacred,
linked to protection
and magical rejuvenation because
it creates spheres out of dung,
which will then burst
forth with its children.
This is a microcosm
of the divine sphere
of all of creation.
The scarab was also
linked to the power
of the sun, the sphere which
rolls across the sky giving
life to the world.
We see physical reality because
we have the sphere of our eye.
All of our current
technology is based
on electromagnetic energy,
which is usually thought
of as two dimensional waves.
But new research is showing that
rather than flat sine waves,
electromagnetic
energy is, in reality,
three dimensional spheres.
The experiments of
Engineer Larry Spring
showed that the frequency of
so-called electromagnetic waves
actually indicates
the physical size
of an electromagnetic
sphere, which is rotating
while traveling in space.
This means that the positive and
negative alternation of the two
dimensional wave is, in fact,
simply a two dimensional
outline of part of the
boundary of the rotating
electromagnetic sphere.
Similarly, Acoustic Imaging
Expert John Stuart Reid
of Britain has shown
that sound waves
are, in fact, spheres pulsating
bubbles of acoustic energy.
We'll explore John's
breakthrough work
in cinematic sound imaging in
a later episode of this series.
The European masons who built
the great cathedrals of Europe
called their work,
The Royal Art.
The Royal Art is
the transformation
of the physical world
into the new golden age
through applying the divine
patterns of sacred geometry.
Just as the masons transformed
stones and trees into temples,
into physical chalices for
the divine to pour into,
the royal art is a high secret
of original Masonic initiation,
which is the establishing on
Earth of the sacred geometry
patterns for the next
round of human evolution.
But tragically, it has been
almost forgotten today.
The Masonic image of
the compass and square
is based on the
practical tools to create
circular and square
forms in sacred design.
The great sacred builders of
the past from Europe, Egypt,
India, and every other
great world culture
knew that each time they
created a circle or sphere
in their designs, they were
recreating the original act
of creation from the Godhead.
Very few human beings can
draw a perfect circle freehand
because to do so, requires
that the person be perfectly
anchored in the divine center
around which the circle
rotates.
In earlier times when people
saw a master artist draw
a perfect circle
freehand, they understood
that this was a sign of the
high spiritual attainment
of that person.
The drafting compass works
by first establishing
a stable fixed divine
center and then
the perfect circular
rotation around that center
becomes possible for everyone.
Master masons would
sometimes be buried
with their personal
drafting compass, which
had been filled with their own
energy and with divine energy
through a lifetime of
movements around the center.
Ancient adepts in Egypt
and other cultures
knew the power of the
circle and the sphere
as primordial sacred geometry
patterns of creation.
Ancient Egyptian adepts
used the spiritual practice
of encirclement
which was putting
a person in the energetic
boundaries of a circle,
either to contain
a dangerous person
or to protect a person in need.
This later evolved into
the use of encirclement
in medieval Europe
with the construction
of the protective
circle for the magician
to stand within during
times of exposure
to dangerous
non-physical forces.
In episode 2, we introduced
the sacred geometry secret
that we can activate
aspects of our energy field
through applying sacred
geometry movement patterns.
In both ancient
and modern times,
methods of bioenergy
healing teach how to feel
and how to project life
energy for healing purposes.
One of the most
fundamental practices
is to create within the
hands an energy sphere which
is programmed for
a specific function
by the vibrational power
of a color given to it.
Gold light vibrations,
for example,
could be used to repair
tears to the subtle energy
nets of the body or to activate
connections to the divine.
Rose color could be used to
activate love and compassion
within the heart.
Green can be used to
dissolve toxicity, et cetera.
In some cases, thought forms
of what a person desires
to manifest are placed
within the sphere of energy
and sent out into the world.
In cases where what
is desire to manifest
is the healing of a
person, the sphere
is filled with the color
of vibration, which
will manifest that healing.
And the energy sphere is
projected-- either in-person
or at a distance into
the appropriate energy
center of a person's body.
We can now explore
how the sphere
can be converted from a
container of energy and thought
forms into a dynamic energy
recharging and circulation
form, which is
known as the torus.
Whereas the sphere
is a container
to hold new life
and other content,
the torus is a pact thought
formed from the mind of God
to preserve the balanced form
of the sphere where, once again,
the center point
of the divine plane
is equidistant from every point
on the perimeter of the sphere,
while alchemically
transforming the container
function of the sphere into a
dynamic flow between the center
and the periphery.
The torus can maintain the
balanced sphere energetics
while actively
circulating energy
between the divine center
and the physical periphery.
To transform the
sphere into a torus,
a vortex opens up at the top
and the bottom of the sphere,
creating an open channel through
the center of the sphere.
This open channel in the
sphere follows the geometry
of a double vortex, in its
being at its widest extent
at the outer boundary,
drawing in sharply
to become the most narrow
at the center of the sphere.
This creates a kind
of hourglass form
in the interior of the
sphere known, technically,
as a hyperbola.
This hyperbola can be created
by having two vortices meeting
at their tips, similar to two
cone geometric forms meeting
at their tips.
In the esoteric
Christian tradition,
this hyperbola form is
the geometric foundation
for the chalice
of the Holy Grail.
The Grail cup.
The entire human
body is a Grail cup,
which receives the flow
of divine nectar from both
above the heavenly flow into
the crown center while also
receiving through the
base of the abdomen
from below the earthly flow.
This grail cup hyperbola
in the human body
is connected to the
entire sphere of energy
constantly flowing
around our body,
creating the torus
circulation running
through our entire
central channel.
Today, the essential practice
of activating our entire energy
field to become a grail
chalice for divine energies
has been almost forgotten.
This same grail
cup torus geometry
we have on the vertical axis
of our central column also
manifests within
the horizontal axis
of the major front-back
chakra pairs in the body.
There are various forms that the
torus takes in natural systems.
Some are more
perfectly spherical
and some are flattened
like a bagel or donut.
Some have wider
internal openings
of the donut and others
come to a very tight center
of the hyperbolic movement.
There is also another very
important but little known
significance to the
torus related to higher
dimensional realities.
We discussed in
our first episode
how higher dimensional
geometric forms
can appear as shadows on
lower dimensional levels.
As an example, we can see that
a fourth dimensional hypercube
is generated in the movement
from zero to four dimensions.
Seen from one
particular perspective,
the fourth dimensional
hypercube can
appear with an eight-pointed
star form inside of it
when projected onto a two
dimensional flat plane.
There are also
shadows which we can
see as two dimensional
flat projections of even
higher dimensional
cubes such as these
for the fifth root
the eighth dimensions.
There are other
perspective views
on how a fourth dimensional
hypercube can manifest
within the three
dimensional world, which
our senses perceive.
One of the most important
alternative perspectives
described in scientific
text is this hypercube form,
which looks like a larger
cube around a smaller cube.
Similarly, a 3D sphere
becomes a hypersphere
in the fourth
dimension of space.
When projected onto a
two dimensional surface,
the fourth dimensional
hypersphere
appears as a circle
within a circle.
Projected into three
dimensions, the hypersphere
appears as a torus.
This reveals that the torus is
actually the three dimensional
shadow of the higher
fourth dimensional
form of the
hypersphere, which is
the spiritual archetype
of the sphere of creation
from a higher nonphysical realm.
This higher dimensional
hypersphere of the torus
is also deeply connected to
modern scientific concepts
of hyperspace--
including being able
to move from one
point in space immediately
to a distant point of space
without crossing the
space in between.
This is connected to the concept
of a black hole where gravity
becomes so strong
that it creates
a distortion of
spacetime itself.
The gravity literally
tears a hole
in the net which we
described in episode 1,
the sacred geometry
of spacetime itself.
When the net of
spacetime is torn,
modern physics indicates that
this can create the hyperbola
form, the interior
form of a torus
which may link one
space time reference
point to a distant point.
This hyperspace portal
is also known in physics
as an Einstein-Rosen Bridge.
Some theorists believe that the
black hole, which takes things
out of physical
existence, may lead
to a white hole from
which new creation emerges
into physical space time.
This entire process takes
the form of the hyperbola--
the grail cup within the torus.
Just as the torus is
linked to higher dimensions
and to black holes,
when it crystallizes
into physical matter, it appears
at every scale of creation,
from the Galactic down
to subatomic levels.
At the Galactic level, torus
structures have been seen
or theorized with large cosmic
structures such as galaxy M87
where the black hole in
the center of the galaxy
is the center of the torus.
At the opposite
end of the scale,
torus geometric
forms have been found
throughout subatomic structures.
Atomic force microscopy
reveals subatomic structures
which have toroidal shapes.
For example, iron particles
can create a microscopic series
of torus on a copper
surface which appears
as a spherical lattice pattern.
Superstring theory
in modern physics
describes the smallest
aspects of matter
as being different vibrational
modes of one dimensional lines
or strings.
Superstring theory
requires there
to be at least 10 dimensions
in order for their math
to work out.
Two of these hidden
dimensions are
theorized as being held in
tremendously small torus forms
within the subatomic matrix.
So we see the
divine pack thought
form of the torus
manifest physical creation
from the hypersphere
on higher dimensions
to then crystallize
into physical matter
at all levels of scale from
the Galactic to the subatomic.
Between these extremes of
large and small scales,
we have the scale of our
lived human experience
where the torus
occurs everywhere.
We find the torus as the
protective energy structure
around the entire Earth itself--
in the magnetic field
and Van Allen belts.
In the magnetic field
around a bar magnet,
in the form of the
fruits which we
eat to sustain our lives such as
the toroidal form of an apple,
in the energy field around
the entire human body,
in the energy field created
around the human heart,
which creates nested
torus forms, one inside
of another, in the
electromagnetic field
of the human body.
Every time our heart beats,
it creates these tourist
structures.
Living energy
systems are dynamic,
constantly increasing
or decreasing
their internal energy level.
The torus allows the perfect
spherical circulation
to grow to a larger
spherical field
when the energy level
increases and then
to morph to a smaller, perfect
spherical field when the energy
level decreases all
the time keeping
the perfect balance
between the divine center
and the earthly boundary.
Some groups take advantage
of the natural toroidal field
around old growth trees to
place or plant at their roots
specific stones which have
beneficial vibrational
properties needed by
the larger environment.
These energetic properties of
the torus in biological life
also apply to modern
electrical systems
where the toroidal
shape has been
found to be optimal for
electrical transformers.
In fact, toroidal
nuclear fusion reactors
are currently being
developed, which
could provide unlimited clean
energy for the entire planet
and replace fossil fuels
through fusing together
hydrogen atoms from water.
These torus-shaped reactors can
create the same fusion reaction
which powers the sun.
Now that we have unpacked many
aspects of the pack thought
form of the torus
sacred geometry,
we can apply this
powerful pattern now
to our own energy field.
We can apply sacred
geometry forms to activate
or modify our internal sacred
geometry energy structures.
Only when these sacred
geometry patterns are directly
applied to your own
energy field will
the power and benefit of these
forms become real for you.
We showed earlier
that energy channels
in the human body with
opposite vortex pairs
are, in reality, a torus either
on a vertical or horizontal
orientation.
The vertical energy flow
between the perineum
at the base of the
abdomen and the crown
center at the top of the head
is the most important torus
in the human body.
It is our heaven and
Earth axis, which
makes us able to stand erect.
It runs through the midline
central channel of the body.
The most important energy
axis of the human body,
which is not the same as the
energy flow up the spine.
This episode has two
practical applications.
The first is the healing
energy sphere practice,
where you will learn to contain
and transmit vital energy
within a sacred geometry form.
The second is the torus
energy activation practice,
which recharges and vitalizes
the entire human energy field.
If you'd like to do
the practice now,
please see the companion
videos for this episode.
Otherwise, please
set an intention
to come back and do the
practice at a later time.
Please join us for
our next episode when
we explore the most famous
forms in sacred geometry--
the Platonic solids,
and you'll learn
how to use them for
a powerful expansion
of your consciousness.
We'll see you then.
[THEME MUSIC ]